1Q.
Data Item	Suggested Data Type	Reason
A person’s telephone number :string -	Phone numbers are not used for arithmetic operations and may contain leading zeros or special characters (e.g., +, -, ()).
A person’s height:float or double -	Height often includes decimal points (e.g., 5.9 feet, 172.5 cm). double is preferable for higher precision.
A person’s age:	int -Age is always a whole number.
A person’s gender:enum	-Gender is categorical and best represented as an enumerated type with predefined values (Male, Female, PreferNotToAnswer).
A person’s salary:decimal-Salaries involve financial calculations, and decimal provides high precision and avoids floating-point errors.
A book’s ISBN:string -ISBNs may contain dashes and leading zeros, so they are better stored as strings.
A book’s price:	decimal-Monetary values should use decimal to ensure precision.
A book’s shipping weight:float or double -Weight may have decimal values, so a floating-point type is appropriate.
A country’s population:	long -Populations can be very large (e.g., billions), requiring long to prevent overflow.
The number of stars in the universe :BigInteger	-The number of stars is extremely large and may exceed long's limit. BigInteger can handle arbitrarily large numbers.
The number of employees in small or medium businesses in the UK	int or long- Since it can go up to 50,000, int is sufficient, but long.

2Q.

Value Type:
Stored in: Stack

Holds: The actual data

Examples: int, float, bool, char, struct, enum

Behavior:

When assigned to another variable, a copy of the value is created.

Modifying one copy does not affect the original value.

Example of Value Type:
csharp
Copy
Edit
int a = 10;
int b = a;  // Copy of 'a' is assigned to 'b'
b = 20;
Console.WriteLine(a); 

Reference Type:
Stored in: Heap (reference stored in Stack)

Holds: A reference (address) to the actual data

Examples: class, string, array, object, delegate

Behavior:

When assigned to another variable, both variables point to the same memory location.

Modifying one variable affects the other.

Example of Reference Type:
csharp
Copy
Edit
class Sample {
    public int num;
}

Sample obj1 = new Sample();
obj1.num = 10;

Sample obj2 = obj1;  // Reference is assigned, not a copy
obj2.num = 20;

Console.WriteLine(obj1.num);  // Output: 20 (both reference the same object)

Boxing:
Definition: Converting a value type into a reference type (object).

Memory Impact: Allocates memory on the heap.

Performance: Slower due to heap allocation and type conversion overhead.

Eg:
int num = 100;
object obj = num;  // Boxing: num is converted to an object

Unboxing:
Definition: Extracting a value type from an object.

Memory Impact: Requires explicit type conversion and can throw exceptions if types don't match.

Performance: Also incurs overhead due to type checking and casting.

Eg:
object obj = 100;
int num = (int)obj;  // Unboxing: obj is cast back to int

3Q.
Managed Resource:
Definition: Resources that are controlled and managed by the .NET Common Language Runtime (CLR).

Memory Management: Handled automatically by the Garbage Collector (GC).

Examples:

Objects of classes (string, List<T>, Dictionary<K,V>)

Managed arrays

.NET Framework classes

Data structures like int, double, bool (value types)

Example of Managed Resource:
csharp
Copy
Edit
List<int> numbers = new List<int>();  // Managed by CLR
The List<int> object is managed by the garbage collector, which will clean it up when no longer referenced.

Unmanaged Resource:
Definition: Resources that the .NET runtime does not automatically manage. These typically involve external system resources.

Memory Management: Not handled by the GC, requiring manual cleanup.

Examples:

File handles

Database connections (e.g., SQL connection)

Network sockets

COM objects

Graphics handles (e.g., System.Drawing.Bitmap)

Example of Unmanaged Resource (Database Connection):
csharp
Copy
Edit
SqlConnection conn = new SqlConnection("connection_string");
conn.Open();
// Use connection
conn.Close(); // Needs to be explicitly closed
For unmanaged resources, failure to properly release them can cause memory leaks and resource exhaustion.

4Q.
The Garbage Collector (GC) in .NET is responsible for automatic memory management. It allocates and deallocates memory for objects, preventing memory leaks and optimizing performance.








